Title 13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim
Genre adventure
Difficulty average
Furigana No
Japanese_Game Yes
Pausable_Text Some
Voiced Full
Backlog Full
Image https://images.igdb.com/igdb/image/upload/t_cover_big/co2uls.jpg
Backloggd https://www.backloggd.com/games/13-sentinels-aegis-rim/
Howlongtobeat https://howlongtobeat.com/game/30314
Playtime Average
Certified Yes

## Notes

The game is an absolute masterpiece of narrative and will keep you glued to the story until the very end (at least it did for me). I consider it the equivalent of "one more turn" memes from the Civilization strategy games, except in an adventure form ("one more dialogue").

While the game itself presents a story that is very convoluted and shown from the point of view of many characters (of which the player can decide the playthrough order), in reality the game does a very good job at presenting it in a very linear fashion. Chronologically, it can get very confusing to know who did what in which order but it's part of the charm of the game, and even if you don't fully understand all details of the story you can still more or less easily navigate the scenarios and reach the end without getting stuck.

It has some combat portions as in some parts it becomes a fully fledged real time tower-defense-like game, and at that point I felt like the difficulty in the language spiked quite a bit. There are a lot of skills, a lot of upgrade systems, a lot of mechanics, and overall I did not personally find that part very enjoyable. For that reason I just played it on "casual" difficulty so I could focus on the story which is what interested me the most. If you are like me and struggle with the battle parts, I recommend doing the same as you won't regret it.

The dialogue in this game is for the most part "pausable" as it waits for your input to continue, so you can read it somewhat leisurely, however there are some parts that are somewhat "timed". This is because as you proceed through dialogues, there sometimes are some other scenes happening in the background as other characters go do their own things, and if you don't read fast enough and interact with them before they are gone, you will get locked into a specific route. But the game makes it easy enough to go back and retry, so I wouldn't worry too much about it.

In the ending dialogue there is a sequence of seemingly non-pausable dialogue, however it can be paused by opening the log, so you can still follow the complicated infodump if you need to. There's a bit of lore dump as you get explained a lot of crucial parts of the plot with some complex words and it's not immediately clear that you can pause it that way, so it's good to keep in mind.

Overall, the lack of furigana hurts a bit, but the fact that the game is entirely voiced and aside a few sci-fi terms sprinkled throughout the story, I'd say the language difficulty is pretty average for this kind of adventure game.
