Title Hira Hira Hihiru
Genre Visual Novel
Difficulty Very Hard
Furigana Partial
Japanese_Game Yes
Pausable_Text all
Voiced partial
Backlog full
Image https://images.igdb.com/igdb/image/upload/t_cover_big/co7bx6.jpg
Backloggd https://www.backloggd.com/games/hira-hira-hihiru/
Vndb https://vndb.org/v38429
Howlongtobeat https://howlongtobeat.com/game/130856
Playtime Average

## Notes

Hira Hira Hihiru is a very interesting visual novel. If you are used to the typical dating sim or character-based visual novels with routes, this will likely not match your expectations.

The writing in this visual novel is very close to that of an actual book. The story is very dense and full of descriptions, and the plot itself focuses more on the character relationships and the description of the world than a consistent plot thread. While there is a plotline, and it takes shape more clearly towards the end, the real focus is going to be how society is described, how the characters react to the world, and overall getting the reader into an very specific type of mood that is not often found in modern day storytelling.

If I had to compare it to some more classic western authors, Emile Zola or even Dostoevsky come to mind. The entire novel is written in a style reminiscent of literary realism that was popular in the late 1800s. It might also be that my impression has been influenced by the fact that this story does take place in the Taisho period.

From a language point of view, the author specifically writes using a style that is somewhat reminiscent of that time. The novel uses a lot of hard and outdated words, some of which refer to everyday items that even native speakers nowadays are not familiar with or cannot read. The choices of kanji are also deliberately old fashioned: for example in the narrative parts from the perspective of one of the two main characters, every 言う is turned into 云う to give a more scholarly and 1900ish vibe. There are also parts of the story that due to plot reasons will use inconsistent kanji and kana in non-conventional ways, and those can throw off the reader.

One aspect that brings the difficulty down a bit is that all these complex words make plenty use of furigana and are relatively easy to look up in a dictionary. Furigana in general is not used much throughout the rest of the writing, but it's generous enough that I felt like it was appropriate for the level of the medium.

As is normal for most VNs out there, this one too offers a full backlog feature (with rollback in case you need to jump backwards in time and re-read a scene), and also full voice acting for all voiced dialogue. Narration however is not voiced, and most of it will be narration due to how heavy the writing is on the descriptions.

Some of the UI might look a bit small, and especially the backlog is very bright and hard to read sometimes (white background with very light grey words). It might cause problems to those with vision impairments.

For all of these reasons, and especially due to how many incredibly rare words it uses, I consider this visual novel to be on the "Very Hard" range of the spectrum.
