Title Star Ocean: The Second Story R
Genre JRPG
Difficulty hard
Furigana not supported
Japanese_Game Yes
Pausable_Text all
Voiced main and side quest
Backlog partial
Image https://images.igdb.com/igdb/image/upload/t_cover_big/co6nmh.jpg
Backloggd https://www.backloggd.com/games/star-ocean-the-second-story-r/
Howlongtobeat https://howlongtobeat.com/game/130455
Playtime Average

## Notes

A remake of an older star ocean game. The remake itself is quite amazing honestly and the artstyle is very charming.

Language-wise, it's pretty average for a sci-fi fantasy game, there are a few technical terms here and there that might throw people off a bit, and some made up words that you kinda need to intuit from context but that also aren't really fundamental to understand the core of the story.

For whatever odd reason, the text rendering engine does not support furigana at all, but sometimes the writers will throw in some alternative readings or help the player with some readings by adding the kana in brackets next to the word, but it's relatively rare (maybe like 10-15 times in a whole playthrough).

The game has a lot to read, and a very broad set of characters with two main characters and two different storylines/point of views so there's quite a decent replayability. Not all characters can be recruited in each playthrough so if you are the kind of person to enjoy exploring all options, you'll be stuck playing this game for a while (there are apparently 99 different ending combinations, with all character pairs).

It is "mostly" fully voiced for the main story and side content, including most of the character personal actions (like private skits), although a few here and there aren't voiced for some reason. All other interactions with random NPCs in town are not voiced though.

One thing that felt a bit overwhelming was the complex skill and crafting system. There is a lot to do and a lot of options to customize and make builds, although by the end you are able to acquire all or almost all of skills/passive boosts so I wouldn't worry too much about it. There is quite a bit of menu reading though and the descriptions can be a bit hard to follow.

Specifically for this last reason, I decided to mark it as hard in language difficulty rather than average.

One thing to also keep in mind is that there is a dialogue log scrollback that can be viewed, however it is only accessible during cutscenes and as soon as the cutscene ends or changes the scrollback is wiped and cannot be accesssed anymore, which is why I marked it as partial instead of full.
